In the last lecture we've seen how to display the validation errors if they happen.
But currently we are validating the data inside the controller using the request validate method.
So there is an alternative way you can do that in Lavell and it is by creating a custom request class.
So let's create one now.
You can do that ultimately using the artisan and the command is make request.
Now you will have to specify the request names or the good idea of calling.
This request is using the method name which is store store blog post or you can just do store posts
so it matches with the controller name.
So now we have our new class created inside the requests folder and the requests folder itself is created
inside the app HDP folder.
So if the request folder doesn't exist it is being created for us by Lavell.
Now let's open this class
now we have this outer method which checks if the current user is authorized to perform this request.
We haven't gets to the authorization or out indication even yet.
So let's ignore that for now and just leave it as it is returning false.
So the part that interests us is the rules method.
So it should return all the validation rules that should be applied.
Now we have that already defined here.
So let's just cut this array with the rules from our post controller and they stop to the rules method.
Now you can use this rule classes to not clutter your controllers with validation logic and just store
that inside a separate class which makes sense because generally you would like to separate concerns
us most as possible so whenever something can handle one thing and be separated into a separate class
it makes sense to do that.
Now let's say the changes now to use our brand new class will have to change the type hint of the request
parameter for our store method.
So instead of being just a request object we will use the store post so of course you will have to import
this class first so let's imported from the UP HDP.
Requests store post.
All right now instead of using request validate the validation will actually happen before we even get
to this controller.
So when does this validation will fail.
It will also do the automatic redirect to the previous page.
But now to access this data we'll just use the request validated method.
So here inside the validated data variable will have all the data that was sent.
If it is valid.
So now let's try to use that DDA method.
And we will dump the contents of our validated data and see what format we get it.
Now when we send the form we see that we got the 403 error and that means that we are not out to rise
to perform this request.
And this is because we are returning falls inside the outer I's method of our store post request.
So instead we'll have to return true and try again.
So let's go back to the form and try to send it again so you can see that the validation works and we
are ultimately redirected back to the previous page and we can display the errors from the global late
errors.
Variable
Now let's try posting some data that will actually pass the validation
and you see that we have an array with the title and content with the data that was actually sent through
the form.
So currently to use this data we would have to do either what we do right now so we could fetch this
data using request input or alternatively we can read the validated data as an array so we can read
the title and we could also read the content but we want to actually use it this way so let's remove
that and now let's follow to the next lecture when I will show you what's the shorter way of assigning
the model attributes.
When you have an array of the data.
So here we have an array of validated data and instead of assigning each single attribute to the blog
post model we can assign all the validated data at once and say the model.
But you will see that in the next lecture.